Try and welcome to this continuation on the constructor's in the contexts for decimals.
So the first thing is I'd do my usual impuls so I execute that.
Now let's take a look at the construct.
Now if you want you can also obviously get the pelt on the console and you can see that it tells us
that construct has a new decimal new decimal object the value can be an integer a string a topple or
another decimal object have no value is given it returns a zero.
Right so if you just do that sum over nothing and it will just be zero.
So let's go ahead and try integers so we can just look at decimal 10.
And we just get back a decimal then right.
So that's pretty straightforward when it comes to using integers you can't just pass in an integer and
you get exactly what you would expect.
Now we can also use strings to do the constructor.
So for the string maybe you would do something like this.
Ten point one.
And that will give us and construct a decimal object with a value of ten point one and it will be precisely
ten point one.
Unlike the floats which are a little bit off.
And you can do you know negative numbers as well so negative 3 while negative 1 1 4 1 5.
We just get that decimal object that gets created.
So that's a pretty standard way of doing it using strings.
Now you can also use tuples as we saw in the lecture.
And so let's take a look at how this would work topple.
Well it's basically you have to pass a single parameter.
Right so the parameter that you need to pass in is a single value.
So you have to be careful the top has to be a topple right so you can't pass in this if you are building
the top all right.
T would be this.
Let's say we want a positive number.
So 0 for positive then the digits.
Let's do 3 1 4 1 5
and let's say that we want three point 1 4 1 5.
So we have to put an exponent of negative 4.
So this would be the top hole that we would use to create decimal.
And as you see when we do that the decimal is three point 1 4 1 5.
Now I want to point out that if you're going to use this directly in the decimal constructor you're
going to have this kind of double opening brace and double closing parentheses.
Right.
You need to keep that.
You cannot pass it this way because that would not be a trouble that would be three parameters.
And so if you do that you're told that that's not going to work right.
So we have to pass it in this way.
Right.
There we go.
And this works as well.
So I just want to point that out.
Sometimes it's a mistake that's easy to make now.
And of course the top of you can do any number you want with it if you want to.
The negative value for that right.
You would just basically put in a negative one and sorry you put in a one not a negative one you're
put in a one to indicate that it's a negative value writes a wonderful negative 0 for positive.
Right.
And then this if you wanted thirty one point four one five you would say negative three for their exposure
the exponent and would get minus 30 one point for one fine.
So that's how we can use the constructor of the table variant of the constructor to construct decimals.
Now stay away from floats because the problem with floats is that if we format's zero point one to let's
say 25 then you'll notice that we don't exactly have 0.1 it's approximate.
So even though we can do this right we can do that.
But what are we actually passing into the decimal constructor with passing this number in we're not
passing 0.1 precisely.
So if we do that decimal is going to do its job actually go ahead and construct this which is behind
the scenes what the number is.
And that's probably not what we wanted right.
The whole idea was to get an exact.
So in that case you really have to use either toppled or what would be simpler in this case is just
to use the string right to get decimal or 1 and you can see that decimal 0.1 is not the same as decimal
0.1.
Created this way we get a false right now of integers it doesn't matter.
Right if we do decimal 10 will that be equal to decimal 10.
Sure.
Right.
Because those are the integers an exact representation.
So we're fine there but not with floats.
Stay away from floats when you're trying to construct decimals.
That's probably not what you are trying to do.
OK so now let's talk about the constructor in context of contexts.
Right.
And so again let's look at what our current default context is which is our global context in this case
because we're at the module level am precision of 28 and a rounding of half even.
So I'm going to change the global context and I'm going to set the precision equal to 6.
OK.
So that means that we now have six digits for the precision.
But this doesn't affect the constructors.
So let's go ahead and try this.
Let's say if I say a equals decimal zero point 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 K which is definitely more than 6.
Then if we look at what is we've retained all the digits that we specified even though our precision
was 6 right.
So be careful with that just because you have a precision of six.
It doesn't affect the numbers that you are storing it will affect the arithmetic operations.
So let's look at something that's changed the precision to make it more extreme.
So it's easy to see what's going on and I'll simplify this a little bit and we'll do another one and
another one as well.
We'll make be equal to that.
Right so now we have these two variables A and B.
And if we print a and b out you'll see that they both 0 1 1 2 3 4 5 even though our precision was set
to 2.
OK.
Now let's go ahead and and those two numbers.
Now if we were using just regular arithmetic on paper right if we added those together what would we
get.
What would get 0 1 1 2 3 4 5 plus zero point 1 2 3 4 5.
I'm going to do it using floats right.
And I'm going to count on the display to just fix that up for me.
It's zero point 2 4 6 9 9 0 0 1 2 4 6 9 0.
If we you add this you know on paper.
So that's the value that we're expecting.
But now let's do a plus b Let's see what we get but we get 0 1 2 5 and now you can see that the precision
that we set here to did affect the result.
Right because we had an arithmetic operation and it did the rounding.
So 0 1 2 4 6 9 was rounded to the closest which would be zero point to 5.
Now let's use the local context and show that the local context in the global context are independent
of each other.
Right.
So again we'll just start with these two numbers are repeated here I don't have to.
But we'll print a plus be out there we're going to define a local context of decimal local context as
CTX we have to use the context manager.
And what I'm going to do first I'm going to reset the global context to six day.
So that's six.
And we'll see what happens when we print a plus b out.
Right.
Remember our summation should be 0.2 4 6 9.
We'll see what happens.
Now for the local context I'm going to change the precision to two and I'm going to make C equal to
a plus b.
OK.
And I'm going to print and I'll say see they within the local context.
Is this past season.
Right.
So will Princie within our local context and rhumba see was calculated within the local context.
And let's go ahead and Princie out but once we've exited the local context now we're back to our global
context and we want to see that makes a difference to see.
So let's go ahead and run all that.
And as you can see when we print a post be out in our global context our default context here had a
precision of six.
And here we go 0 2 4 6 9 0.
So we had that precision.
Now when we printed see within the local context we only got 0.2 5 Well that's because our precision
was too.
Now when we exited the local context and now we're back with the global context so the value for C is
for 0.2 fine.
And of course that has to be because see is 0 2 5.
There's nothing that's kind of magical about this where it actually stores extra digits for C..
No C was exactly zero point to 5.
So it doesn't matter what context you're in.
It's going to be 0.5.
You're not going to magically get you know zero point 4 6 9 0.
Once you exit the local context because you create it see within that local context.
So just be careful with that arm don't don't don't think that this is just a display mechanism.
It's not.
It's actually a calculation mechanism that affects your arithmetic operations but the precision does
not affect the precision of the constructor.
Right.
So I may have a precision of two but I can store digits with a lot more precision that's fine.
But if I do calculations with them that's when the precision is affected.
All right thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.